Through my speech, I would let you know all about the value of education and its contribution in our lives. Education is the tool which helps us in removing our all doubts and fears about all the challenges and happiness in our life. Education is not about to gain only knowledge, however it means, learning the ways to be happy, learning the way to keep others happy, learning the way to live in society, learning the way to tackle challenges, learning the way to help others, learning the way to care older, and learning the way how to behave others. My dear friends, education is like a healthy food which nourishes us both internally and externally. Good education is only way to remove bad habits, poverty, inequality, gender discrimination and so many social issues. Getting education is not only means to get good job, it means to make a good personality, to be healthy and fit, to maintain hygiene, to be happy all time, to behave well to others, to tackle all challenges of life and so many. The kids of rich people were allowed to study however kids of poor people were not allowed to study in the same school or college. The right for proper education is the birth right of everyone, restricting one from getting proper education is the crime. Education helps us to understand between good or bad, right or wrong and help us in taking decision in the favour of right ones. Education is like magic which helps us to learn all the magic to stay happily on this planet. Proper education prevents us from the many diseases as well as helps fight the spread of communicable diseases like HIV/AIDS, infections, etc. It helps to make future bright in all aspects. Education Is Important to Both Your Personal and Professional LifeYour level of education is often paramount to future success. Clearly, education is important for financial growth in the healthcare field, as with many other careers. The fewer years of education you’ve completed, the fewer doors are open to you. Why has education become so important to employers. Hiring managers say the education requirement has become a barrier to entry into many careers because education allows you to:Learn how to learn. The Importance of Education in Healthcare CareersEducation is important to everyone, but education is even more important in the healthcare industry.