Is accepted as a student by the Guru, he wouldn't stay at Guru space and help in all activities at home. In 1929, the Board of High School and Intermediate Education, Rajputana, was established. In recent times, several major announcements were made for developing the poor state of affairs in education sector in India, the most notable being the national common minimum programme of United progressive Alliance government the announcement are to progressively increase expenditure on education to around 6% of GDP. the school system in India has 4 levels lower primary, upper primary, high and Higher Secondary. The lower primary school is divided into 5 standards upper Primary School in 22, High School in 23 and Higher Secondary into 2. there are many three streams in school education in India. Two of these are coordinated at National level, of which one is under Central Board of Secondary Education and was originally made for children of Central Government employees who are periodically transferred and may have to move to any place in the country. In October 1956 at the meeting of inter state board for Anglo Indian education, a proposal was adopted for the setting up of an Indian Council to administer the University of Cambridge, local examination Syndicate examination in India and to advise Syndicate on the best way to add up its examination to the needs of country. Both the CBSE and ICSE Council conduct their own examination in schools across the country that are affiliated to them at the end of 10 years of schooling and again at the 12 years. which state in the country has its own department of education that runs its own schooling system with its own text book and evaluation system. In some states like and love, their schools are very similar to the government schools teacher pay for the Government and the seas are same as the government. the state of Kerala, a small state in the South Western coast of India, has different from the rest of the country in many ways for the last few decades. Government policies also have been very different from the rest of the country, leading to the development model followed in Kerala with expenditure in education and welfare, coming to the known as Kerala model among economist.