Terrorism can be defined as an intentional act of terror or violence on the part of clandestine individual/s, group or state actors to inflict death, injury or property damage, or induce fear among its victims. Terrorism seeks to take refuse in posturing of political, philosophical, ideological, racial, ethnic, religious or any other nature. Terrorism: Spreading tentacles in IndiaIndia has been tackling the menace of terrorism ever since its independence. Jammu and Kashmir has always been a troubled state with Pakistan using it as a means of waging a proxy war against India. The North-East region has been the hotbed of part insurgent-part terrorist movements. ndia has long been a victim of terrorism. Kidnapping: Terrorists’ favourite weaponKidnapping has been a favourite tactic employed by terrorist groups whether they are religious or non-religious for ransom. Terrorist groups have affinity with terrorist groups of their ilk in other countries. The separatist, terrorist Kashmiri outfits are connected with the religious, fundamentalist and jihadi organizations of Pakistan. The overseas diaspora too funds and supports home-grown terrorist groups both in moral and material terms. In its heydays, the Khalistan movement in Punjab found a resonance with the overseas Sikh community in the UK and Canada and flourished rapidly. The Mirpuris, migrants from Pakistan-occupied Kashmir, who have settled in Western countries, are said to help Kashmiri organizations in all sorts of ways. There are several causes of terrorism in India: political, economic, and religious. The political cause of terrorism is primarily seen in Tripura and Assam where the political factors resulted in terrorism after the respective state governments failed to control and manage the large-scale illegal Muslim immigration from Bangladesh. Madhya Pradesh, Bihar, Orissa and Andhra Pradesh are prime examples of economic causes of terrorism in India. All this led to the rise of ideological groups such as the several Marxist/Maoist groups waging a war against the State. One of instance of religious terrorism was the growth of Sikh militancy in Punjab for the creation of an independent Sikh nation called Khalistan. Terrorism implies the use of violence to terrorize a population or government for certain political, religious or ideological purpose. The threat of terrorism has become a worldwide concern with several parts of the world reeling under frequent terrorist strikes.