The term education system generally refers to public schooling, private schooling and more commonly to kindergarten through High School programs. who is all School district are typically the smallest recognised form of education system and countries are the largest state and also considered to have education system. Simply put an education system compromises everything that goes into education public school through a federal state community lesson. While determination is widely and frequently used in the news media and public disclosure, it may be difficult to determine precisely what the term is referring to when it is used without qualification specific examples on additional explanation.  secret Annexe like the teaching profession education system or by nature extreme Complex and multistage and the challenges entered in reforming on improving them send similarly B complex and multifaceted. even informed that appear to be straightforward, simple or easily achieved maybe in practice require complicated State Policy challenges or Union contract negotiations. how to set policies and requirement in tic-tac-toe requirement influence what is 30 days in a course for specific instructions method are commonly used by the teachers and seems to work day how Educational Research informs New instructional approaches assitance kinds of professional development. When investing all reporting on education reforms to, it may be useful to look for the for more concrete, understandable and relatable way of describing abstract concepts such as education system. in ancient times, India has a Gurukul system of education in which anyone who wish to study went to teacher house and requested to be taught. this is not only created a strong type between the teachers and students comma but also thought the student everything about running the house. Guguru thought everything the child wanted to learn from Sanskrit to Holy scriptures and from mathematics to metaphysics. Student stayed as long as she wished or until the Guru felt that he had taught everything he couldn't. All the learning was closely linked to the nature and to the life and not confined to memorizing some information. Uttar Pradesh Board of High School and Intermediate Education was first word setup in India in the year 1921 with jury Dasari over Rajputana Central Indian and jewelry.  1929 Board of High School and Intermediate Education . Satya Niketan Saket all schools in Delhi and some other regions come under the board. It was the function of the board to decide on the things like curriculum, textbook and examination system for all school affiliated to it. There there today there are thousands of school affiliated to the board, both within India and in many other countries from Afghanistan to Pakistan.  Universal and compulsory education for all children in the age group of 6 to 14 was a cherished dream of new government of the republic of India. This is evident from the fact that it is incorporated as a directive policy in the article 45 of the constitution. In the recent past the government appears to have taken a serious note of this lab and has made primary education as fundamental right of every Indian citizen. The pressure of economic growth and the accurate scarcity of scale and trained manpower certainly have played a role to make government take such a step. The Government of India on the school education is here comes to around 3% of GDP is recognise to be very low.