Good morning to the Excellencies, distinguished guests, my respected teachers, and my dear friends. The topic of my speech is education. Through my speech, I would let you know all about the value of education and its contribution in our lives. Education is the tool which helps us in removing our all doubts and fears about all the challenges and happiness in our life. It is the tool keeps us happy and peaceful as well as makes us better socialize human beings. Our teachers are like God for us who helps us all in getting good quality education from the institutions. They try their best to make us learn everything and shape us for the future challenges. Our teacher comes in our lives, removes all the darkness, removes all the fears, removes all the doubts, and helps us to find a beautiful career in this big world.

Education is not about to gain only knowledge, however it means, learning the ways to be happy, learning the way to keep others happy, learning the way to live in society, learning the way to tackle challenges, learning the way to help others, learning the way to care older, and learning the way how to behave others. My dear friends, education is like a healthy food which nourishes us both internally and externally. It makes us strong internally and gives lots of confidence by making our personality and giving us knowledge. Good education is only way to remove bad habits, poverty, inequality, gender discrimination and so many social issues.
 Education is a powerful tool capable to solve all the social, personal and family problems. It is like a medicine which has capability to treat almost all the diseases. Getting education is not only means to get good job, it means to make a good personality, to be healthy and fit, to maintain hygiene, to be happy all time, to behave well to others, to tackle all challenges of life and so many.

Education is most important to all of us to lead a happy life. Earlier the education system in India was so poor and undisciplined. The kids of rich people were allowed to study however kids of poor people were not allowed to study in the same school or college. Poor people were forced to do labour in the fields only, which was the main reason of discrimination among people in society, inequality, gender inequality, and lots of social issues because of the lack of good education. Low level of education for poor people made them vulnerable to the economic and political exploitation in their own country. There has been made adequate provisions for the poor people in the Indian constitution in order to remove inequality and ensure the empowerment and participation of people of all levels equally.

The right for proper education is the birth right of everyone, restricting one from getting proper education is the crime. Education helps us to understand between good or bad, right or wrong and help us in taking decision in the favour of right ones. It helps us in everything of wide range of problems. We can solve the mysteries of this universe. Education is like magic which helps us to learn all the magic to stay happily on this planet. It keeps us free of all doubts, superstitions as well as removes away all the social evils affecting the society. Better educated people can safeguard their family and nation in more secure and easy way.

Education provides better opportunity in future for viable economic growth. It helps us to keep ourselves and people related to us happy and healthy. Proper education prevents us from the many diseases as well as helps fight the spread of communicable diseases like HIV/AIDS, infections, etc. It helps to make future bright in all aspects. It gives proper understanding to us to tackle to many problems all through the life. Through the proper education, one knows the value of people and value of unity which ultimately reduces the conflicts among people in family, society and country. Good education is the best tool for any nation to go ahead, grow and develop among other strong nations. Well educated people of any country are the most precious assets of that country. Education is the way to reduce mother and child mortality rate by improving their health.

Education brings transparency, stability, good governance as well as helps to fight against graft and corruption. Still, in many backwards regions the meaning of education is nothing. They are so poor that they spend their whole day in earning only two times food. They understand that earning money from childhood is good instead of wasting money in education. Education is really an amazing tool which raises income, improves health, promotes gender equality, mitigates climate change, reduces poverty and so many. It helps in making a peaceful environment at home or in office. Education provides intellectual freedom and keeps us happy physically, mentally, socially and intellectually. It promotes the habit of ideas and experiences sharing among people as well as motivates them for morals, ethics and community responsibilities.

Education provides us wide range of knowledge such as art, history, sports, maths, literature and fields. Education is the basic building blocks of success, bright career and better quality of life.
Education can be expensive and take years to complete. Many job seekers ask why education is important for your career, particularly in the healthcare industry, and whether it can have an overall impact on your quality of life.

You may find yourself passed over for a job in favor of an applicant who has a degree or more education, even though that person has less experience. Learn why employers place an emphasis on educational credentials.


Education Is Important to Both Your Personal and Professional Life
Your level of education is often paramount to future success. Completing increasingly advanced levels of education shows that you have a drive and commitment to learn and apply information, ideas, theories, and formulas to achieve a variety of tasks and goals.

Subject Matters
Probably the most obvious reason education is important is to acquire the subject matter and basic knowledge needed to get by in everyday life. For example:

English and language skills: English and language skills will help you to communicate your ideas more clearly. Communication skills are essential in any role—whether you’re dealing with co-workers, patients, customers, or supervisors, you will need to effectively convey your plans, ideas, and goals.
Math and science skills: Although calculators and computers are readily accessible, you still need to learn how to do basic computations and calculations on paper or in your head. If you are calculating dosages, counting surgical supplies, or tallying sales, math skills are imperative for a career, and for life. Cooking, shopping, driving, and many other everyday activities require math skills as well, regardless of your career choice.
The More You Learn, the More You Earn
Have you ever noticed that the word learn contains the word earn? Perhaps that is because the higher level of education you achieve, the higher level of income you are likely to command. For example, consider the following health careers and the educational requirements as they relate to annual income:


Medical jobs, no college degree: Pay $20,000 to $40,000 annually, on average
Allied Health Careers, two years of college: Pay from $40,000 to $60,000 annually.
Nursing Careers, associate's or bachelor degree: Pay $40,000 to $55,000 on average annually.
Advanced Nursing Careers, master's degree required: Pay $60,000 to over $90,000 annually.
Pharmacist, bachelor's and PharmD degree: Pay $90,000 to $115,000 annually.
Physician, medical doctorate degree required: Pay $120,000 to over $500,000 annually
Are you seeing the trend here? Clearly, education is important for financial growth in the healthcare field, as with many other careers.

Many Employers Now Require Education for Employment
Another primary reason education is important is that it’s become a basic requirement for many employers to even get your foot in the door. Many employers require college-level education, even for roles which previously did not require it, such as administrative assistant positions. The fewer years of education you’ve completed, the fewer doors are open to you. It’s that simple.

Educational requirements are a quick and easy way to narrow down the field of applicants, especially in situations where there are more applicants than jobs.


When hiring from a field of candidates, employers prefer those who have completed the higher level of education.

Why has education become so important to employers? Hiring managers say the education requirement has become a barrier to entry into many careers because education allows you to:

Learn how to learn. School teaches you how to gather, learn, and apply knowledge. No matter what career you choose, you will need to learn procedures, information, and skills related to your job, and execute tasks based on that information and training.
Develop interpersonal skills. School allows you to interact with other people and refine your communication skills, including those of persuasion, conflict resolution, and teamwork.
Learn time and task management. Learn how to manage projects, deadlines, and complete assignments efficiently and effectively.
Learn from the experience of others. By attending school, you are able to learn from the experience and intellect of thousands of people who have gone before you. In just a few years, through your textbooks, research, and class lessons, school gives you a consolidated overview of theories, formulas, ideologies, and experiments conducted by generations of scientists, philosophers, mathematicians, historians, and other experts. While gaining your own personal work experience is helpful, a formal education is a way to learn from centuries of others’ life and work and academic experience before you.
The Importance of Education in Healthcare Careers
Education is important to everyone, but education is even more important in the healthcare industry. Why?

Technology, math, and science are key components of many healthcare roles: Healthcare careers often require knowledge and understanding of the sciences and technology. These fields are always changing and growing with new developments and discoveries. It’s imperative to have a basic understanding you can build on with continuing education throughout your career to keep up with the latest changes and new information.
Health professionals have a huge responsibility for the health, well-being, and survival of others. Therefore, health professionals must be particularly adept and relating to other people, learning and gathering information about a patient, and applying it to the treatment and care of that patient based on medical knowledge.
For many healthcare roles, degrees and certifications are required for licensure to practice in a certain capacity. Many allied healthcare jobs require at least an associate’s degree, most nurses need bachelor’s degrees, and physicians and advanced practice nurses must have many years of post-graduate training to include master’s and doctorate degrees. In addition, many professions have continuing education requirements 