in ancient times, India had the Gurukul system of education in which anyone who wish to study went to a teachers house and requested to be thought. Is accepted as a student by the Guru, he wouldn't stay at Guru space and help in all activities at home. This is only created a strong type between the teacher and the student, but also taught the student everything about the house. The Guru thought everything the child wanted to learn, from Sanskrit to the holy scriptures and from mathematics to metaphysics. All learning was closely linked to nature and to life, and not confined to memorizing some information. The Modern School system was brought to India, including the English language, only by Lord Thomas babington Macaulay in 1813. Uttar Pradesh Board of High School and Intermediate Education was the first board setup in India in the year 1921 with jurisdiction over Rajputana, Central India and Gwalior. In 1929, the Board of High School and Intermediate Education, Rajputana, was established. Universal and compulsory education for all children in the age group of 6 to 14 was a cherished dream of the new government of the republic of India. This is evident from the fact that it is incorporated as a directive policy in article 45 of constitution. In recent times, several major announcements were made for developing the poor state of affairs in education sector in India, the most notable being the national common minimum programme of United progressive Alliance government the announcement are to progressively increase expenditure on education to around 6% of GDP. India is divided into 28 states and 7 so called union territories. These States have their own elected governments while the union territories are ruled directly by the government of India, with the President of India appointing and administrator for is union territory. the school system in India has 4 levels lower primary, upper primary, high and Higher Secondary. The lower primary school is divided into 5 standards upper Primary School in 22, High School in 23 and Higher Secondary into 2. there are many three streams in school education in India. Two of these are coordinated at National level, of which one is under Central Board of Secondary Education and was originally made for children of Central Government employees who are periodically transferred and may have to move to any place in the country. A number of Central School have been established for the purpose in all mail or urban areas in the country, and they follow a common schedule so that a student going from one school to another on a particular day will hardly see any difference in what is being taught. The second Central scheme is the Indian certificate of Secondary Education. It seems that this was started as a replacement for the Cambridge school certificate. In October 1956 at the meeting of inter state board for Anglo Indian education, a proposal was adopted for the setting up of an Indian Council to administer the University of Cambridge, local examination Syndicate examination in India and to advise Syndicate on the best way to add up its examination to the needs of country. Both the CBSE and ICSE Council conduct their own examination in schools across the country that are affiliated to them at the end of 10 years of schooling and again at the 12 years. Admissions to the 11th class is normally based on performance in this all India examination. which state in the country has its own department of education that runs its own schooling system with its own text book and evaluation system. As mentioned earlier, the curriculum the pedology and evaluation methods at last he decided by NCERT in the state, following the national guidelines prescribed in NCERT. Government schools for privately owned land and building. This is a high and it is prepared by the management. The grind in is meant to help reduce the fees and make it possible for families to send that reason. In some states like and love, their schools are very similar to the government schools teacher pay for the Government and the seas are same as the government. South Western coast of India has the best of country in many ways for last few decades. the state of Kerala, a small state in the South Western coast of India, has different from the rest of the country in many ways for the last few decades. It has, for instance, the highest literacy rate among all states, and was declared the first fully literate state about a decade back. properly the total fertility rate has 10 below the replacement rate of 2.1 for the last two decades. The totally as a side effect of economic and social development, suicide rate and alcoholism are also very high. Government policies also have been very different from the rest of the country, leading to the development model followed in Kerala with expenditure in education and welfare, coming to the known as Kerala model among economist.