Technology is the use of scientific knowledge to produce new machines and devices that can be used to produce different services or create more devices. The application of information to design and produce machine and Other goods to make life more convenient for the human being is known as and Technology.   the term Technology has been derived from the Greek word technique and logos skill required something and logo stands for discussion about something. Technology does means the use of knowledge to create something to enhance life. Several big and small things we use in our daily life has been an outcome of technological development. To come up with new ideas. Technology development example for this. Without giving a second thought the smartphone from amazing experience to Instant connectivity with the people that is hard to find and take your eyes off. Your car air conditioner Microwave and other technological advanced devices also seems to be good because of convenience the offer. However, it is wise not to go overboard with the issues. Maintain a low balance between science and nature to lead a peaceful life and keep your surroundings healthy. Technology has helped in growth and development of mankind as a whole.  Technology has made leaving convenient. connecting with fitment in different part of the world, travelling long distances by having distance source of entertainment and ease of cooking and storing food are some of the best thing Technology has offered us. But technology is really a boon to the mankind? Well, this has always been a point of debate. Well Technology has paved the way for better life itself down site cannot be overlooked. Why technology is used continuously advance and equipment as well as the processes for the production has lead to a drastic rise in all type of pollution. The rising pollution has become the cause of several health issues. Excessive use of Technology has also contributed to problems such as obesity and Visual impairment. Decide it has isolated people socially more than connecting them. It has also lead to a decrease in the employment opportunities particularly for the labour class. Why Science and Technology are interdependent these other to complete distinct field of the study. The research and the experiment conducted in the science Laboratories lead to designing of various Technology technological techniques and devices. When the ideas are put to use the scientist are always inspired and motivated to research and experiment further to come up with new ideas. From the television awards to the mobile phone who use to connect with your near and dear ones from the car you drive to the refrigerator you used to story of food everything is a gift of Technology. Technology has become an integral part of my life it is ever evolving and responsible for our changing lifestyle. New technology inventions are taking the market by storm and people hardly take any time to get used to this. Technology is also defined as use of scientific and Technical information to design, create and monitor machinery electronic device and various other kind of good to serve the mankind. Technology has been classified into different categories with each of them having its unique purpose. First industrial Technology this type of Technology deploys manufacturing and Engineering Technology for the production of Machines and other equipment. the architectural Technology is use of the technology to design and build building. It is a part of architecture and building engineering. It is closely associated with advancement in building science. The use of Technology for improving so one way of living life is fine however, addiction with the technological devices can be prove as disasters. Unfortunately we have to we have come a way to forward come for using the technology almost everyone today is blue to the technology one of the example can be the cell phones whether you are in Cafe, office or at home everyone around you just seems busy in the smartphone. Conclusion the technology seems addictive due to the convenience and easy source of comfort and entertainment it offers. However, there being one with the nature is no less elastic try getting a balance between 2 and you will see how your life changes for the good