Terrorism can be defined as an intentional act of terror or violence on the part of clandestine individual/s, group or state actors to inflict death, injury or property damage, or induce fear among its victims. Terrorism seeks to take refuse in posturing of political, philosophical, ideological, racial, ethnic, religious or any other nature.The victims of violence are generally chosen from a target population, to serve a message. Terrorism poses a grave threat to the citizens of India.
Terrorism: Spreading tentacles in India
India has been tackling the menace of terrorism ever since its independence. Jammu and Kashmir has always been a troubled state with Pakistan using it as a means of waging a proxy war against India. The North-East region has been the hotbed of part insurgent-part terrorist movements. The nation also had to grapple with the pro-Khalistan movements in Punjab in the eighties though now the situation has returned to normal there.
Political factors led to insurgency-cum-terrorism especially in Assam and Tripura. The governments of these states failed to control large-scale illegal immigration of Muslims from Bangladesh. It resulted in insurgent movements that raised the demand of economic benefits for the sons and daughters of the soil.

Andhra Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Orissa, Chhattisgarh, Jharkhand and Bihar are prime examples of economic causes behind terrorism. Against the backdrop of the absence of land reforms, rural unemployment, exploitation of landless labourers by land owners, etc, the economic grievances of people of the states multiplied, giving rise to ideological terrorist groups such as the various Marxist/Maoist groups operating under different names. They consider the ideology of Marx, Engel, Mao, Lenin as the only valid economic path. All of them resort to terrorist activities to reclaim social justice for the people.ndia has long been a victim of terrorism. Terrorism in India is said to be largely sponsored by Pakistan, through its secret service and intelligence agency, Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI). Pakistan has consistently denied its involvement, but in July 2016, the Indian Government released the data on a series of terror strikes in India since 2005 that claimed 707 lives and left over 3,200 injured, all pointing at Pakistan’s involvement.

Kidnapping: Terrorists’ favourite weapon

Kidnapping has been a favourite tactic employed by terrorist groups whether they are religious or non-religious for ransom. They have sought to make others agree to their demands through kidnapping. For instance, a Romanian diplomat was kidnapped by the Khalistan Commando Force, a Sikh terrorist group, in New Delhi in 1991. Similarly, the Jammu Kashmir Liberation Front kidnapped some Israeli tourists in J&K in 1992.
Terrorist groups have affinity with terrorist groups of their ilk in other countries. For instance, the Marxist groups of India are aligned with Maoist groups of Nepal, Sri Lanka and Bangladesh. The separatist, terrorist Kashmiri outfits are connected with the religious, fundamentalist and jihadi organizations of Pakistan. Similar is the link between the Students Islamic Movement of India (SIMI) with jihadi elements in Pakistan and Saudi Arabia.

The overseas diaspora too funds and supports home-grown terrorist groups both in moral and material terms. In its heydays, the Khalistan movement in Punjab found a resonance with the overseas Sikh community in the UK and Canada and flourished rapidly. The Mirpuris, migrants from Pakistan-occupied Kashmir, who have settled in Western countries, are said to help Kashmiri organizations in all sorts of ways. Similarly, the Marxist groups within India find encouragement and support from the people of Marxist leanings within the overseas Indian community.
There are several causes of terrorism in India: political, economic, and religious.

The political cause of terrorism is primarily seen in Tripura and Assam where the political factors resulted in terrorism after the respective state governments failed to control and manage the large-scale illegal Muslim immigration from Bangladesh. The terrorist outfits capitalized upon the alienation of the daughters and sons of the soil who did not wish to share the opportunities of employment with the refugees.

Madhya Pradesh, Bihar, Orissa and Andhra Pradesh are prime examples of economic causes of terrorism in India. Factors such as rural unemployment, exploitation of landless labourers and lack of land reforms created perceptions of gross social injustice. All this led to the rise of ideological groups such as the several Marxist/Maoist groups waging a war against the State.

One of instance of religious terrorism was the growth of Sikh militancy in Punjab for the creation of an independent Sikh nation called Khalistan. In Jammu and Kashmir, the dream of a separate Kashmir nation has drawn many Muslim organizations together against India.Terrorism implies the use of violence to terrorize a population or government for certain political, religious or ideological purpose. The threat of terrorism has become a worldwide concern with several parts of the world reeling under frequent terrorist strikes. With little concern for human lives, terrorists continue to strike with impunity, leaving a trail of death and destruction, wherever they choose to inflict their blows. 
There have been several terror attacks in India, resulting in grievous loss of lives and properties. Here we are providing you some useful articles on terrorism under various categories according to varying words limits. You can choose any of them as per your need: